What is HTTP? 

Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is a method for encoding and transporting information between a client (such as a web browser) and a web server. 
HTTP is the primary protocol for transmission of information across the Internet.

Evolution of HTTP
HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol) is the underlying protocol of the World Wide Web. 
Developed by Tim Berners-Lee and his team between 1989-1991, HTTP has gone through many changes that have helped maintain its simplicity while shaping its flexibility. 
Keep reading to learn how HTTP evolved from a protocol designed to exchange files in a semitrusted laboratory environment into a modern internet
 maze that carries images and videos in high resolution and 3D.


version of HTTP

HTTP 1.0
HTTP 1.1
HTTP 2.0
HTTP 3.0

What is HTTP? Why is HTTP/2 faster than HTTP/1.1?

HTTP is the method computers and servers use to request and send information. For instance, when someone navigates to cloudflare.com on their laptop,
 their web browser sends an HTTP request to the Cloudflare servers for the content that appears on the page.

What is HTTP/1.1?

The first usable version of HTTP was created in 1997. Because it went through several stages of development, this first version of HTTP was called HTTP/1.1. This version is still in use on the web.

What is HTTP/2?

In 2015, a new version of HTTP called HTTP/2 was created. 
HTTP/2 solves several problems that the creators of HTTP/1.1 did not anticipate. In particular, HTTP/2 is much faster and more efficient than HTTP/1.1. 
One of the ways in which HTTP/2 is faster is in how it prioritizes content during the loading process.

What is prioritization?

In the context of web performance, prioritization refers to the order in which pieces of content are loaded.

+++ Suppose a user visits a news website and navigates to an article. Should the photo at the top of the article load first?
+++ Should the text of the article load first?
+++ Should the banner ads load first?




''' Prioritization affects a webpage's load time. For example, certain resources, like large JavaScript files, may block the rest of the page from loading if they have to load first.
More of the page can load at once if these render-blocking resources load last.'''


How does prioritization in HTTP/2 affect performance?

In HTTP/2, developers have hands-on, detailed control over prioritization. This allows them to maximize perceived and actual page load speed to a degree that was not possible in HTTP/1.1.

HTTP/2 offers a feature called weighted prioritization. 
This allows developers to decide which page resources will load first, every time. In HTTP/2, 
when a client makes a request for a webpage, 
the server sends several streams of data to the client at once, instead of sending one thing after another.
This method of data delivery is known as multiplexing.
